Engdocs 2038 (#19698)
docker/docker.github.io: content/desktop/hardened-desktop/settings-management/air-gapped-containers.md

---
description: Learn how to create air-gapped containers with Settings Management
title: Configure air-gapped containers with Settings Management
keywords: settings management, air gapped, security, Docker Desktop, configuration, proxy, network
---

> **Beta feature**
>
> This feature is in [Beta](../../../release-lifecycle.md/#beta).
> It's available with Docker Desktop version 4.29 and later.
{ .experimental }

Air-gapped containers allows administrators to restrict containers from accessing network resources, limiting where data can be uploaded to or downloaded from.

Docker Desktop can apply a custom set of proxy rules to network traffic from containers. The proxy can be configured to:

- Allow network connections
- Reject network connections
- Tunnel through an HTTP or SOCKS proxy

You can choose:

- Which outgoing TCP ports the policy applies to. For example, only certain ports, `80`, `443` or all with `*`.
- Whether to forward to a single HTTP or SOCKS proxy, or to have a policy per destination via a Proxy Auto-Configuration (PAC) file.

## Configuration

> Assuming enforced sign-in and Settings Management are enabled, add the new proxy configuration to the `admin-settings.json` file. For example:

Reviewer: Maybe we could link to the docs for enforced sign-in and settings management here?

```json
{
  "configurationFileVersion": 2,
  "containersProxy": {
    "locked": true,
    "mode": "manual",
    "pac": "http://192.168.1.16:62039/proxy.pac",
    "transparentPorts": "*"
  }
}
```

The `containersProxy` setting describes the policy which is applied to traffic from containers. The valid fields are:

- `locked`: If true, it is not possible for developers to override these settings. If false the settings are interpreted as default values which the developer can change.
- `mode`: Same meaning as with the existing `proxy` setting. Possible values are `system` and `manual`.

> - `http`, `https`, `exclude`: Same meaning as with the `proxy` setting. Only takes effect if `mode` is set to `manual`.

Reviewer: These fields are not shown in the example above. I think it would be clearer if they were.

Reviewer 2: If added to the example above they would be
```
    "http": "",
    "https": "",
    "exclude": "",
```

- `pac` : URL for a PAC file. Only takes effect if `mode` is `manual`, and is considered higher priority than `http`, `https`, `exclude`.

> - `transparentPorts`: A comma-separated list of ports (e.g. `80`,`443`,`8080`) or a wildcard (`*`) indicating which ports should be proxied.

Reviewer: I guess this should be a single string?

```suggestion
- `transparentPorts`: A comma-separated list of ports (for example, `"80,443,8080"`) or a wildcard (`*`) indicating which ports should be proxied.
```

> **Important**
>
> Any existing `proxy` setting in the `admin-settings.json` file continues to apply to traffic from the app on the host.
{ .important }

## Example PAC file

> For general information about PAC files, see the [Mozilla documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Proxy_servers_and_tunneling/Proxy_Auto-Configuration_PAC_file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For general information about PAC files, see [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Proxy_servers_and_tunneling/Proxy_Auto-Configuration_PAC_file).
```

The following is an example PAC file:

```javascript
function FindProxyForURL(url, host) {
	if (localHostOrDomainIs(host, 'internal.corp')) {
		return "PROXY 10.0.0.1:3128";
	}
	if (isInNet(host, "192.168.0.0", "255.255.255.0")) {
	    return "DIRECT";
	}
    return "PROXY reject.docker.internal:1234";
}
```

> The url parameter is either `http://host_or_ip:port` or `https://host_or_ip:port`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `url` parameter is either `http://host_or_ip:port` or `https://host_or_ip:port`.
```

The hostname is normally available for outgoing requests on port `80` and `443`, but for other cases there is only an IP address.

The `FindProxyForURL` can return the following values:

- `PROXY host_or_ip:port`: Tunnels this request through the HTTP proxy `host_or_ip:port`
- `SOCKS5 host_or_ip:port`: Tunnels this request through the SOCKS proxy `host_or_ip:port`
- `DIRECT`: Allows this request to go direct, without a proxy
- `PROXY reject.docker.internal:any_port`: Rejects this request

> In this particular example HTTP and HTTPS requests for `internal.corp` are sent via the HTTP proxy  `10.0.0.1:3128`. Requests to connect to IPs on the subnet `192.168.0.0/24` connect directly. All other requests are blocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this particular example, HTTP and HTTPS requests for `internal.corp` are sent via the HTTP proxy `10.0.0.1:3128`. Requests to connect to IPs on the subnet `192.168.0.0/24` connect directly. All other requests are blocked.
```

> To restrict traffic connecting to ports on the developers local machine, match the special hostname `host.docker.internal`.

Reviewer: I think a link here to where we describe `host.docker.internal` would be helpful
